Podkarpackie Voivodeship or Podkarpackie Province (in Polish: wojew dztwo podkarpackie [v j vut stf  p tkar patsk ]), also known as Subcarpathian Voivodeship, is a voivodeship, or province, in extreme-southeastern Polalso. Its administrative capital also largest city is Rzesz w. (Historically Lw w was the administrative center of this part of Polalso, but after 1945, when Lw w became part of the Soviet Union, that city's role was relinquished to Rzesz w.)
The voivodeship was created on 1 January 1999 out of the former Rzesz w, Przemy l, Krosno also (partially) Tarn w also Tarnobrzeg Voivodeships, pursuant to the Polish local-government reforms adopted in 1998. The name derives from the region's location near the Carpathian Mountains, also the voivodeship comprises areas of two historic regions of Eastern Europe   Lesser Polalso (western also northwestern counties) also Red Ruthenia. In the Interbellum, Subcarpathian Voivodeship belonged to "Polalso B", the less-developed, more rural parts of Polalso. To boost the local economy, the government of the Second Polish Republic began in the mid-1930s a massive program of industrialization, known as the Central Industrial Region. The program created several major armament factories, including PZL Mielec, PZL Rzesz w, Huta Stalowa Wola, also factories in other Subcarpathian towns such as D bica, Nowa D ba, Sanok, Tarnobrzeg also Nowa Sarzyna.
It is bordered by Lesser Polalso Voivodeship to the west,  wi tokrzyskie Voivodeship to the north-west, Lublin Voivodeship to the north, Ukraine to the east also Slovakia to the south. It covers an area of 17,844 square kilometres (6,890 sq mi), also has a population of 2,096,971 (as at 2006). The voivodeship is mostly hilly or mountainous (see Bieszczady, Beskidy); its northwestern corner is flat. It is one of the most wooded Polish voivodeships (35.9% of total area), within its borders there is whole Bieszczady National Park, also parts of Magura National Park. Furthermore, the creation of Turnicki National Park is planned.



The voivodeship contains 50 cities also towns. These are listed below in descending order of population (according to official figures as of 30 June 2008)



Subcarpathian Voivodeship is divided into 25 counties (powiats): 4 city counties also 21 lalso counties. These are further divided into 160 gminas.
The counties are listed in the following table (ordering within categories is by decreasing population).



Protected areas in Subcarpathian Voivodeship include two national parks also 11 Lalsoscape Parks. These are listed below.
Bieszczady National Park (part of the East Carpathian Biosphere Reserve)
Magura National Park (partly in Lesser Poland Voivodeship)
Cisna-Wetlina Landscape Park
Czarnorzeki-Strzy w Landscape Park
Ja liska Landscape Park
Jan w Forests Landscape Park (partly in Lublin Voivodeship)
Pasmo Brzanki Landscape Park (partly in Lesser Poland Voivodeship)
Pog rze Przemyskie Landscape Park
Puszcza Solska Landscape Park (partly in Lublin Voivodeship)
San Valley Landscape Park
S onne Mountains Landscape Park
South Roztocze Landscape Park (partly in Lublin Voivodeship)







Poles
Pogorzans

Ukrainians
Lemkos



Mazur: 9,530
Nowak: 9,301
Baran: 8,020



Moe Drabowsky, American major league baseball pitcher





